In this demo we're going to take a look at defining some of the
security credentials that we can use in AWS.
I'm going to show you where they show up in the GUI
and give you some food for thought.
So first of all we have to log in to the console,
so if I want to look at the root account,
I'll have to log on as the root account,
although we know that's note the safe thing to do.
So let's do that,
sign into the console and since the last time that I
logged on to AWS I used the root account,
it's still showing up as a root account log on.
I know that because of my email address.
So I can sign in.
Now this is the only time I'm using the user account and
password for the first time I set up my account,
so this is the master account for my Amazon services and I
shouldn't be in doing things using that root account,
but we do want to look at the situation as far as
security options for the root user.
So if we go up to my name and take a look at my security credentials,
we can see what is the state right now.
Note it comes up and says you're accessing security credentials,
we know your root, we just want you to know maybe you should go over to go IAM.
I'll continue, but you get the idea.
So my password, if I expand password,
it tells me you use an email address and password to sign in for this account,
so you could change the password, this is where I could create a random password,
not save it, not write it down, and lock this account out.
If I look at multi-factor authentication,
I could activate multi-factor authentication for this
account using a virtual or hardware device,
this is where I would do that.
If I want to take a look at my access keys,
we'll find out that there are access keys,
they've been here for a year or so, some of them,
some of them much longer, you can see that one was created 2016,
one was initially created 2011, and it was deleted,
but then a new one was added in.
And note, we can have access keys active or inactive at one time.
So over on the right I could make this key inactive,
I won't do that right now, but in a real account,
a real corporate account,
that would be the first thing that I would be doing after I created an
administrative account for doing administrative work.
Note I can also create a new access key if that's something that I need to do,
if I have removed the key and want to add it back in.
Next we have key pairs.
If I expand CloudFront key pairs,
you can see that there is a key pair that is in place for CloudFront,
for the content delivery network.
Now the other area we can look for key pairs is when we set up IAM.
And lastly, we could take a look at the account identifiers.
And you can see the account identifiers and the
canonical user ID are displayed here,
so this is where I can get the information for this account.
Let's see what changes if I log on as an administrator through IAM.
So let's sign out and we'll sign back in,
but I'm going to sign back in by using a console log on.
This is a console log on driven by IAM,
which says okay we're not giving you the entire console,
so log in with your IAm username and then password.
When I sign in and I go to my Services,
I can do everything as this user because I'm an administrative user.
So let's go down to IAM and we'll select the users and
we'll select Mark and we can see that this user has
certain policies that are applied, he also has certain security credentials,
it's enabled, I can manage the password.
This is the console login link where once I have an IAM
user that's my entry point into Amazon.
At this point MFA is not assigned and I don't have a signing certificate.
So this is the area where you have to make those decisions
as to what's going on with credentials, what should I do,
what would be the best step for my company. So that's a bit of a look at the authentication options for AWS.